original thinking
mathmatically, this dual cue is what especially in my measurement framework, the association cue is like input what in the retreiving process? I mena, i am tthinking again on recolletion vs familarity now in figureing out the rlatrionship. i kind of feel recollection and familarity are just the clarity or scope of looking. or, especially, familarity extrace less information then recollectoin (what information? typically locaiton information, or maybe association? i dont know, but if its location, does that mean so if encode this information in recollection in other memory process (like using discrimination) rather than explicit information then its famialrity now? Is thishow afmaialrity and recall is? im not so sure. i am not sure if my thinking and understanding about recollectoin and famizarity is correct. maybe malmberg paper said something more than I said. i just came up this explanation just now so i really am not sure about this)? So, maybe the first issue i can draw from my measurement framework is to say that how information could be expressed as itself versus  between stuff in memory? I mean, i dont see how the current measuremnt framework define or where do the framework bone related to the single information encoded, versus information encoded through relationship between variable. Maybe this is kind of going back to the produce space vs. embedded space of memory I had ealier. But of course produce and embedded space is such its like a pure description but not the root reason. The root should be related to how the product and embeddd mathmatically is represented in the measure model so that you can find out they are essentially controlled by differnet transformation or different transition between measures (i.e., between spaces...or ..??) beucase the current definitions of different spaces are still unsure the provided document are just preliminary guesses.  I assume, you have , lets use serial postion for example first (by the way, a side questoin, things to address in here that is realted, before serial position, what other memory experiments or mechinism are related? such as associations? do associations have main debate between retreival and familarity? i kind of think so, but how? im not sure i am not very faimalr with famialrity and other literature) , so the positions could be represented in a space itself. Or it could not defined explictly, that the positions are just embeded relationship betwen items. Well, ok, that goes to defnition of context. can we fully define context through relationsihp between items? or maybe whether define relationship between context or between item and context (as sperate or single space) is not imporant , because i kind of feel there are some deep mathmatical structure that is embedded here that might include the whole thing about item and context--> i feel my understanding of measur etheory is still not good enough to think in the big picture, i now mainly know how to define a space and how the 3 linear transofrmatoin works. epsecially how pushforwad and kernal transformation work, but i can't see in the big pitcutre view on how every spaces can be seen as a whole. Like essentially tranformation from one space to the other is nothing change or what but to compress stuff (i think this is related to transformation method? but i guess then i still lack knowledge on trannsformation method becuase i dont exactly kno whats the defnition. i kind Kind of know that different transformation may have different known stuff first for example you first know the transition function such as the kernel function or you first know the target space so you do a push forward or not I don't know what push forward is known but I mean maybe you have different Information which decide how you transform between spaces but again I don't know a measure theory if the transformation between spaces are all follow the same kind of idea or not maybe it should like in my understanding transformation between spaces are just transforming between measures which means and measures are a way of how the density is shown in a space which didn't have density which means is A way to show different structures of different space like different kinds of folding of a space If this is the case then the problem is can you define two spaces to be one space I guess you can but what essentially are the relationship between spaces maybe between some spaces they have some relationships that oh okay I don't know but I'm thinking about this because I want to know exactly about what it what is it there to be talked about if we use the internal relationship of items within one space already defined versus we use the positions as another space plus the items, or like and I got a side question here again about The product space and embedding space previously when I was thinking about the differences between these two spaces oh it is correct the embedding space may be fit the idea of that 1 only one space is defined but maybe not but it also is not like the product space that 2 space is defined but I think in embedding you still need two space ok so like if you describe the relationships between items as for example similarity as the position information and does that mean you are doing embedding almost like that you understand how I connect these logically right? I know that doesn't sound Exactly right using rigorous mathematical definition of each terminologies So I guess I have two separate, small questions. The first question is is the way of defining any kind of relationship between items are essentially having another space or necessarily means another. The concept of another space is implicitly used And the second question is in embedding how do you assume different spaces? Again, I all of a sudden distinguish between how spaces are defined between embedding and product space And going back to the discussion between embedding and product space, I think the main one main thing between the differences between them is the created space not only, but not only on the original space original definition And also going back to the very beginning. Now, when I was talking about the retrieval versus familiarity I don't know. So I made the analogy of saying, I feel like maybe the essence of Retrieval is about how it's defined things initially of whether this specific information is defined and retrieved explicitly And all of my, a lot of speaking above is defined on this dangling assumption. Just want to say and also about the relationship between retrieval and familiarity, I originally thought I've set this the the difference between them are how clear you see on a space like, what's thely in my measurement framework, the association cue is like input what in the retreiving process? I mena, i am tthinking again on recolletion vs familarity now in figureing out the rlatrionship. i kind of feel recollection and familarity are just the clarity or scope of looking. or, especially, familarity extrace less information then recollectoin (what information? typically locaiton information, or maybe association? i dont know, but if its location, does that mean so if encode this information in recollection in other memory process (like using discrimination) rather than explicit information then its famialrity now? Is thishow afmaialrity and recall is? im not so sure. i am not sure if my thinking and understanding about recollectoin and famizarity is correct. maybe malmberg paper said something more than I said. i just came up this explanation just now so i really am not sure about this)? So, maybe the first issue i can draw from my measurement framework is to say that how information could be expressed as itself versus  between stuff in memory? I mean, i dont see how the current measuremnt framework define or where do the framework bone related to the single information encoded, versus information encoded through relationship between variable. Maybe this is kind of going back to the produce space vs. embedded space of memory I had ealier. But of course produce and embedded space is such its like a pure description but not the root reason. The root should be related to how the product and embeddd mathmatically is represented in the measure model so that you can find out they are essentially controlled by differnet transformation or different transition between measures (i.e., between spaces...or ..??) beucase the current definitions of different spaces are still unsure the provided document are just preliminary guesses.  I assume, you have , lets use serial postion for example first (by the way, a side questoin, things to address in here that is realted, before serial position, what other memory experiments or mechinism are related? such as associations? do associations have main debate between retreival and familarity? i kind of think so, but how? im not sure i am not very faimalr with famialrity and other literature) , so the positions could be represented in a space itself. Or it could not defined explictly, that the positions are just embeded relationship betwen items. Well, ok, that goes to defnition of context. can we fully define context through relationsihp between items? or maybe whether define relationship between context or between item and context (as sperate or single space) is not imporant , because i kind of feel there are some deep mathmatical structure that is embedded here that might include the whole thing about item and context--> i feel my understanding of measur etheory is still not good enough to think in the big picture, i now mainly know how to define a space and how the 3 linear transofrmatoin works. epsecially how pushforwad and kernal transformation work, but i can't see in the big pitcutre view on how every spaces can be seen as a whole. Like essentially tranformation from one space to the other is nothing change or what but to compress stuff (i think this is related to transformation method? but i guess then i still lack knowledge on trannsformation method becuase i dont exactly kno whats the defnition. i kind Kind of know that different transformation may have different known stuff first for example you first know the transition function such as the kernel function or you first know the target space so you do a push forward or not I don't know what push forward is known but I mean maybe you have different Information which decide how you transform between spaces but again I don't know a measure theory if the transformation between spaces are all follow the same kind of idea or not maybe it should like in my understanding transformation between spaces are just transforming between measures which means and measures are a way of how the density is shown in a space which didn't have density which means is A way to show different structures of different space like different kinds of folding of a space If this is the case then the problem is can you define two spaces to be one space I guess you can but what essentially are the relationship between spaces maybe between some spaces they have some relationships that oh okay I don't know but I'm thinking about this because I want to know exactly about what it what is it there to be talked about if we use the internal relationship of items within one space already defined versus we use the positions as another space plus the items, or like and I got a side question here again about The product space and embedding space previously when I was thinking about the differences between these two spaces oh it is correct the embedding space may be fit the idea of that 1 only one space is defined but maybe not but it also is not like the product space that 2 space is defined but I think in embedding you still need two space ok so like if you describe the relationships between items as for example similarity as the position information and does that mean you are doing embedding almost like that you understand how I connect these logically right? I know that doesn't sound Exactly right using rigorous mathematical definition of each terminologies So I guess I have two separate, small questions. The first question is is the way of defining any kind of relationship between items are essentially having another space or necessarily means another. The concept of another space is implicitly used And the second question is in embedding how do you assume different spaces? Again, I all of a sudden distinguish between how spaces are defined between embedding and product space And going back to the discussion between embedding and product space, I think the main one main thing between the differences between them is the created space not only, but not only on the original space original definition And also going back to the very beginning. Now, when I was talking about the retrieval versus familiarity I don't know. So I made the analogy of saying, I feel like maybe the essence of Retrieval is about how it's defined things initially of whether this specific information is defined and retrieved explicitly And all of my, a lot of speaking above is defined on this dangling assumption. Just want to say and also about the relationship between retrieval and familiarity, I originally thought I've set this the the difference between them are how clear you see on a space like, what's the resolution of looking. I feel like that's kind of true because familiarity is almost always global matching and global matching is meant to have resolution as a whole like seeing the everything while retrieval is like seeing one thing but I had some doubted on this earlier because I thought some global matching models also differentially weighted different evidence which made it when extrem e become central focus on like evaluating only on several items, but ignoring all the others If the border items have too little weighted So essentially you're using the information from those only several items as well I originally thought that's the main difference between retrieval and familiarity, but now I kind of realized this new proposal that I had the dangling proposal that I've been mentioning is because I find out despite this resolution problem I mentioned But even if a global matching is can approximate to retrieval or like small specified resolution it feels like the familiarity model still don't use or like don't recall some information But you know this assumption here was mainly based on the serial recall knowledge in my mind that you need to recall either the list of origin information, the position information or some information which you call a recall. But I remember some paper well, Rich, actually, Mentioned that there is knowledge and event traces for both recall and familiarity, which makes four kind of information in total and Rich embraced more on recognition can use recall from knowledge trace but not event trace. I don't know much about the difference between knowledge and event trace. But knowledge trace sounds pretty much like the extra information that is being recalled, which is related to my dangling hypothesis That retrieval assumes one more information to be encoded separately or to be defined as a separate space But since rich said he would accept knowledge trace to be recalled but not event trace what is event trace like the item itself? I actually am forgetting how retrieval is used in recognition memory models So this is another small question as well It does retrieval of event trace means it uses other information to retrieve the event trace information. But I mean the extreme approximated global matching model, which I mentioned like the weighted global matching model Also uses the event tracing information, I guess. But the difference is how they use them. Then maybe. Oh I feel like I see the key here the key is exactly that familiarity model are using the discrimination are mostly using the signal detection theory or using loose choice based model and exactly ok this goes back to what I said about using the relationship to define like the relationship between items in purely the item space to define the location Rather than directly coding location OK this is related so some some necessity is there on the relationship between Coding location through through relationship between items or through some global relationship I mean not necessarily items and if this is the case, it necessary follows that the information used is discrimination, but on the other side I am not sure if there is the necessary relationship like between coding separate information of the position, let's say and the use of recall . ok I will stop the discussion for that part for now and I will go to another part of major discussion between context and content now. So it is a murky field of context and content of how they are defined A lot of those are related to the spatial relationship between stuff that I mentioned about. But what I want to discuss right now Is if all kind of context information, no matter how we define context, can be defined through some kind of global relationship. This might be a circular question because whether the global relationship include context or not is one thing So maybe let's just don't distinguish between content and context Let's just say if there is one space versus two space or how do we describe the relationship for things in the space That seems to solve most questions I mentioned above through the spatial relationship i've been discussing above But the problem is there is a reason for people to separate content and context information, because we typically would say an item itself to be the content like the property of the item itself Ok, I think now I get a new direction of question in discussion, which I have been thinking for a while as well, which is how to define the core content the necessary content information, which is these direct property of an item itself If there is such thing, and I wonder, are they defined like a point in the space? Like, Are they the samples in the space? Which means they are essentially the basis of a space But at somewhere in some models, you need to expand into new spaces for each sample So the dots are not dots anymore, but the dots are in new dimension themselves now So the sample have their feature space. I guess that's the case. Oh, okay. So I feel like I disentangled something. The spatial relationship I discussed above on the on whether the extra information is defined, I guess, is related to whether these content are expanded or not It sounds counterintuitive in one way because I'm saying expanding content now for the Retrieval process, but I previously say the retrieval process needs to separately space for the positions like the context. But I think this is not controversial inherently Maybe this is because I don't know, though I don't know. I don't think I get the correct answer in one shot, but I think this might because caused by the extra spatial positions are always there anyways, but whether those position matters is actually related to whether the content are expanded themselves or not or not. Now that is one more hypothesis I am giving And to think about if that hypothesis is true or not, I need to think about how retrieval and familiarity models use expanded or not expanded information. If this hypothesis is true, it answers some of my previous questions on whether you need to separately define the space position So, like I said, if position is always there like, like, like, maybe another dimension of positions emerges when you need to draw some association relationship, like when you need to define it through the content expanded content This is really just a hypothesis, like everything in my head is messy now, especially on the mathematics because I'm not very good at measure theory itself. Anyways, I'm not sure if these assumptions are correct or not. If I know more about measure theory, then I know more better about the relationship between spaces Or, I mean, not necessarily measure theory, maybe categorical theory, or what, or topology or what Speaking of topology, I feel like there might be something, there must be something said in topology about the spaces which has been troubling me on the definition of spaces Because in my head, the spaces are just I've said these are just the different folding of each other. And therefore, I think topology can tell me something about the relationship of spaces and how definition of new spaces emerges and what kind of space is need transformation between each other, such as measure transformation and so on. Going back to my last hypothesis do you familiarity model use expanded context They sure need to use somewhere Ok, I want to stop here and but leave the thinking direction for future That is thinking about the different serial recall models claim they use more of a dual storage And most of them use retrieval thgouth only working memory, And the problem I need to think about is first how do storage in single storage is related to the whole spatial relationship and specifically familiarity and recall (you can answer this question a little bit). And second think about which models claim their dual storage, and also which model claims they are using familiarity or not And then I will be able to think about how different model which belongs to different schools of thinking uses Content information on whether they expand content information or not and whether the spatial relationship hypothesis I had, the dangling hypothesis I had is related or not.


i guess the main storyline i have is Discuss in the definition of Different kinds of information. So firstly, I 
Define core content information, which were the property of the item itself. And these content information are samples in the world Suppose, in an experiment, the stuff being remembered is the item that's the symbol Everything else in this face is the sample space And there is a map between when the item is physical information is mapped to memory i.e., the psychological information And somewhere, either in the map like this kernel transformation in this map or the kernel transformation before the map or the kernel transformation after the map, which should be the thing that I want to discuss later But in some process of the mapping it emerges the problem of whether you expand the samples into a space itself which then lead to the relationship between the samples and the original sample space And in there you can have product space, for example And you can have embedding, you can have different relationships. And some Some theorem here might define whether the extra information like the position, explicit position information is encoded or not I mean, it's separately encoded or not And also, so this is the knowledge trace of the recall And there is also an event trace of the recall which then is the expanded item itself. Okay, so now I have the definition of recall in 2 forms. Maybe the event recall is defined as where the sample expand or not And the knowledge recall trace are whether the explicit positions were defined or used or memorized or not And here I need to find out some mathematical relationships between defining the sample and defining the positions. And I need to disentangle how the positions are like how the internal relationships are defined by explicit versus by internal relationships So a period here . Go back to the big picture I want to define something So I would define one core term that I will be discussing is the original sample space And by saying the original sample space, it's actually equivalent to the original measure So what I cared about is the original measure. I can give it a name, call it, , initial internal relationship. And all of this discussion is to discuss the internal relationship of how this initial sample space expanded and are converted to different other measures space. And for this discussion of the initial internal relationship it separates the school of familiarity versus recall that the familiarity describes the relationship through the internal structure and the recall described the relationship through different measure mapping (well this is a hypothesis here some kind of hypothesis I need to or theorem I need to make) . Go back to where I said on the encoding so somewhere in the encoding before or during or after the encoding the expanding of the sample itself or different kind of special relationship between the defined context and the defined content is generated into memory and then there it goes a maintenance part which I haven't been thinking much so leave that for now and then the retrieval part of the global matching versus recollection then here the necessity consequence is drawn for the global matching that because it describes the relationship through the internal relationship Like I defined above therefore it necessarily follows that it has to use discriminability which is from signal detection theory which goes to lose choice model or those kind of model to normalize a measure or to tranlsate nonmeasure into a measure And the recall is necessarily followed by this and that and that's my thinking for now I haven't disentangled much on the maintenance forgetting part


 