
## daily note
-  question-reckless [allDay:: true]

So my PI noticed me to miss the first email like the other person sent me about the visa stuff. Even though I did, I did, so they sent me, they asked me to send the visa document to them because the SIRI asked the school to ask me for that. But I actually have sent to the embassy my stuff on the day when I received it because I also actually received the same notification from the embassy themselves. So I just, I've uploaded those documents myself, but I missed the school's email from them and they had to send me another email the next week. And I saw the next email and I replied instantly, said I missed the first email and I CC'd my PI and this time this thing happens. Do you think if my PI would think I'm like, I had problems, like I'm reckless or what? Like I've always have been replying emails very fast and I've done things, so he knows I've done things, but would he kind of feel like I do things but I'm like for some reason really reckless or something like that or I don't know?because I'm actually not very confident about all of these of my skills of how he employed me because I've had difficulties in my PhD and I earned this postdoc opportunity all through more through the interview I know I did well I know I have lots of knowledge but I am so afraid of doing something mistakenly so that they would not believe in me that much because I think they put faith on me and they thought I could contribute well based lots on my interview solely even though I think I had good recommendation letters probably I have good I had good PI he's pretty prestigious but I mean you know I'm just I'm still not confident enough and I don't want to give a bad impression to people to my future employer even though I know that with with like with the the actual that he will know what I actually am later but I think the expectation mattersThe expectation matters because the expectation would shape how I behave. I think when I want him to feel, to have a certain impression on me, I would act in that way. I'm kind of an actor, actress, acting person in that way. I don't know, I think it's important. So I want to keep impressions. As a summary, I think it's super important to keep a good impression. I don't know, it's hard to judge if I over killed it or not. Like if I cared about this too much or not. But I want you to help me to judge based on what I've told you. I've been replying very fast all of the time. I've been replying in very detailed and I've been doing things I haven't really missed doing duties. But I did have the reckless moment, which I don't understand why either. I don't know why those things happened. I slept well, but I probably really didn't put all my energy on those things. I've been distracted a little bit recently probably. That's the reason. Things happen and there's always a trace for why you did that. I always seem to be reckless and I actually had a bad experience. For myself in being... I was very busy in my first year of my PhD. Which is different from right now. I sleep well, but I just have different things to do because I'm going to move to Denmark. I've been planning on my trip a lot with the stuff that I need to purchase before I leave. I've been distracted recently. I haven't put wholeheartedly my research on these email correspondencies.But in my PhD first year, I had, I've been really sincerely busy about too many stuff, like working stuff, and I've been sleeping too less. I've been sleeping only three to four hours. And I've accidentally missed my TA meeting for three times. And the TA teacher, the TA, the professor I TA'd, he's actually not a professor, he's a lecturer. The lecturer that I TA'd with has kicked me out from the class and I almost got an academic, not academic, I almost got a job probation based on that. But later the school was able to, my advisor was able to back me up. But that was, that was, that was a moment showed that I'm a little reckless. I think I do am a little reckless. I send emails sometimes without double checking. I make mistakes, like mistakes like this, I always do. And I just, I think I'm really kind of reckless in it. But I don't want, because at this point, like he can know that I'm kind of reckless in some or after he knows, like my future PI knows that I'm like reliable in other ways. But now he don't really know how reliable I am in other ways. And I don't know how much people value this kind of reckless. Can you tell me like actually academically how reckless people are actually are and how reliable people are and how the reliability for such kind of things are important comparing to their actual other kind of abilities, like their trust abilities on their abilities in actual skills of doing things and their competence in doing things and things like that, comparing to how reckless they are in or like how many small mistakes they make. Like, I think I'm the kind of person who's like I have a rushy habit and I have a rushy I'm a rushy personality. So I do things in a rush and I sometimes don't want to take the time to double check because I think the time matters in doing lots of other things. And I have that personality, you know, so I am quite efficient. A lot of times I use small terms and I did lots, lots of things. I'm that kind of person that always technology drawn. And I like to use the best ways to do things. I like to save time, but that's where I have downsides sometimes. You understand me?



I kind of feel like right now I can be a really smart person because I do feel so like right now when I talk to people I feel their mind goes so slowly So I think my thinking ability evolve for lots of reasons, for reasons that my personality evolves actually as well like my foundational personality, my basic root personality changes sometimes I don't think other people do it like this. I had my ex boyfriend for example, he when we were together he changed nothing. I think he changed nothing throughout his life for those things he rootily be for the personality he rootily is But I changed throughout the time we were together every time I had a real heartbreak I would really broke myself and then eventually evolved to a new person and I would totally forget all the past and get past with all those people I had met in the past So I have never missed someone even though how much I loved them previously, even though I was almost going to get married with them even though I wished to die for anybody but I eventually forget them completely I hate them sometimes, not because I still love them, not at all, but because I actually do think they weren't in my league and I shouldn't, I mean I'm not in their league I mean they're not good for me, they're bad people or like they are not good enough for the current me because I truly have evolved, have been evolving all the time and I truly don't think, I think I'm not a very proudy person but I think it's actually true that those people just don't evolve and for some reason my personality evolved and for some reason my thinking ability and IQ evolved, I don't know if that's true or not, can you tell me how other people feel and how this goes for other people?